hello everybody welcome to my channel
today i am going to explain the world's
first successful horror movie
called cabinet of dr caligari before we
jump into the plot of this movie we must
understand its origin
because this movie altered the course of
film making it introduced new things
which are still an inspiration
the film's writers carl mayer and hans
janowitz were military officers in world
war one
they wanted to convey their horrifying
experience
horror films originated with the german
expressionism movement of the 20th
century
the industrialization of the 19th
century changed the old europe
modern inventions like telephones
personal cars trains
electricity gramophone machine guns
cameras changed the lives of people
all the painters poets writers left
their traditional thinking
and started experimenting to reflect the
modern world
when there could be innovation and
experimentation in science then why not
in the arts
some artists started calling this
experimentation in arts as expressionism
in the previous centuries painters used
to paint as they saw
meaning if the sky is blue then they
painted blue
the tree leaves are green then they
paint them green
most of their paintings were based on
historical and religious themes
these are some examples of them the 20th
century artists
saw these paintings as a reflection of
reality
these paintings were reflecting the
emotions of the subject not of the
so they started a new art form where the
emotions of the subject
and the painter had their importance the
feelings of the painter were given more
importance compared to the reality of
the subject
here the sky may be dark the leaves of
the tree may also be purple
artwork interpretation depended on the
beholder
these are some examples of expressionism
art form
a variant of this expressionism invented
by the great painter pablo picasso
is called cubism cubism is an art form
where all geometric shapes such as
triangles
circles squares pentagons are used to
make a painting
when you see it as it is you won't
understand a thing
but when you start interpreting it then
the whole story will emerge
this is a famous painting of picasso
what do you see in this
do you understand anything this is a
painting of three musicians playing
music
the one on the left is the clarinet
player the one in the middle is the
guitar player
and the one on the right is holding a
sheet music there is also a dog next to
everyone
hence this form of art is called cubism
this is a 1
500 year old painting of three egyptian
musicians where you can clearly see
three clean women
this is an ancient art form the cabinet
of dr caligari film is great because its
entire set design is based on this idea
of expressionism
no building is normal windows or
triangles mountains or triangles
roads are inclined they all express
different emotions the interpretation of
each scene is different
this was the first commercially
successful film when reality was
replaced by fiction in films
this was a silent film first the
dialogues of the film were shown on the
screen
after that the video played this was the
first time when stylish fonts were used
in a film
the story of the film is divided into
six parts
act one the act one begins with two men
francis and an old man whose name has
not been disclosed francis says that
spirits are all around us they affect us
then we see jane walking in a state of
trance francis points at her and says
she is my girlfriend
i will tell you what happened with her
now the film plays in flashback
dr caligari comes to one town he wanted
to show his spectacle at the town's fair
here you will see the expressionist set
design that symbolizes the town's dark
and twisted reality
here every road has been made inclined
dr
caligari has also been given shaky
movement
now dr caligari goes to the city hall to
obtain a permit from the city clerk
there he was asked to wait and the clerk
misbehaves with him
here you will notice that the table
height of the city clerk is higher than
dr caligari's body height
symbolizing the might of authority
government or bureaucracy is above all
now dr caligari has got a permit he
rents a house in the city
he had a some ambulance named cesar
somnambulist is a man who could walk and
sleep
act two act two begins with two police
officers
they found the murdered body of the city
clerk now at the town fair
dr caligari was preparing everything for
his spectacle
francis and his friend allen arrive at
the fair they decide to watch dr
caligari's spectacle
dr caligari begins his show and says
this is caesar
he knows both the past and the future
whoever wants to know their future comes
forward
now alan comes forward and asks how long
i live
on which the caesar says till the
morning it was creepy
allen and francis were spooked they left
the show immediately
on the way they see a poster which dates
about a murder in the town
while the killer was absconding a 1000
mark's cash price was also announced for
the clue giver
marx was the currency of germany at that
time
then jane arrives there with whom both
of these guys were in love
now both leave it to jane to decide whom
she will marry
act two ends in allen's room where
someone stabs him to death with a knife
this is an iconic scene here for the
first time a murder was shown on the big
screen
act three now francis knows about
allen's murder
he was shocked he gets a permit from
jane's father who was a police officer
to conduct an investigation
francis starts with caesar as he was the
one who predicted ellen's death by
morning
francis thought caesar was the killer
but dr caligari defends caesar
he says caesar was within the whole
night here the director has used filters
of three different colors for the first
time
for the daylight yellowish orange color
filter for night scenes bluish green
filters and for the inside of jane's
house the filter was pink
here for the first time colors other
than black and white were used in a film
we can say this is an experimental color
film
act four now the investigation was
taking too long
jane was searching for her father and
francis she arrives at dr
caligari's house and asks whether or not
they have seen them
cesar here stares at jane with his big
eyes which naturally spooks jane
she runs away from him late that night
francis was snooping on dr caligari at
his house
there he saw dr caligari and cesar
sleeping besides one another
but we see caesar at jane's house too he
had a knife in his hand we were seeing
two caesar at the same time
cesar was slowly moving towards jane who
was sleeping peacefully
he was about to stab jane but got
distracted by her beauty
instead of killing her he kidnaps her
jane starts shouting and her family
members were now running behind caesar
in panic cesar drops jane near a hill
and later jumps from it
he commits suicide and dies now jane
narrates everything to francis
francis was confused as he saw caesar
sleeping besides dr caligari the whole
night
act five the city police have arrested
one guy in connection with one old
lady's murder
that guy accepts the murder charge but
refuses his involvement in allen or the
city clerk's murder
he was hoping that the police won't
catch him francis again arrives at dr
caligari's house
there he asks about caesar to dr
caligari
dr caligari shows him caesar's sleeping
cabinet where he had kept the full-size
puppet of caesar
it was this fake caesar which francis
saw while snooping on dr caligari
upon this revelation dr caligari runs
from them
and hides at a mental asylum francis
follows him there and asks the staff of
the asylum about dr caligari
the staff tells him to contact the
director francis was stunned when he
entered the director's cabin
there stood dr caligari the director of
mental asylum
francis runs back and narrates the story
to the staff doctors
he tells them about his killings at
night when the director was sleeping
francis and the staff started checking
his cabin
here francis finds a diary where the
story runs in a flashback again
remember this whole story was running in
a flashback we are seeing another
flashback in a flashback
asylum's director was fascinated by one
18th century character known as dr
caligari
dr caligari was an artist he had a sound
ambulance with him
he used to conduct spectacles at the
fair on march 12th some people brought a
man to the asylum who was a sun
ambulist the director was happy after
seeing this man
he wanted to test dr caligari's story so
he changed his name
act six now the news of caesar's death
reaches francis
and the rest of the doctors jane's
relative brings his body to the asylum
the director was furious after seeing
this he started to attack everyone
later francis locks him up in his asylum
now coming back to the first scene where
francis was narrating this story
we see francis moving around he was
actually locked up in the same asylum
which he just narrated
meaning he was the real patient he
created this story by observing his
surroundings
here we see jane and cesar too they were
also the patients here
cesar was not creepy here he was
absolutely normal
francis asks that old man not to go near
caesar
later he asks jane if she will marry him
jane answers in a cryptic way
saying we are not free to adhere to our
hearts we are not free
just then we see the real director of
this mental asylum who looked like dr
caligari
francis shouts at him as caligari
director orders his staff to lock franix
as now he understood his illusion
francis was assuming the director is dr
caligari
this film has been interpreted by many
scholars in different ways
here the wartime german government is
equated with dr caligari when their
nationalism went crazy
caesar is equated with a german army
soldiers who jumped into this war
without thinking much
they were in sleep with the intoxication
of nationalism francis
jane and alan were equated with ordinary
german folks of that era who suffered
due to the ugly war
that's why jane says we are not free
germany was poor after world war one
more than 8 million people had died of
starvation hyperinflation
record unemployment caused a sense of
hopelessness
this paved the foundation for the rise
of hitler the cabinet of dr caligari was
a commercial hit
next horror films like the golem and
seredo metropolis took inspiration from
this film
with the rise of hitler many artists
directors fled germany
later they were employed in hollywood
where we see this type of expressionism
example include dracula frankenstein and
the mummy
overall art has been interpreted by many
scholars in different ways
i hope you like this video thanks for
watching
take care